README.md, before:

# The Recipe Store -  Milestone 3 Project

![Site Image](https://github.com/StevePilcher/RecipeStoreMS3/blob/master/static/images/site-image.png)


This project was created for my Milestone 3 project for the Code Institute's Full Stack Dev course. The project requirements were to build a MongoDB-backed Flask project for a web application that allows users to store and manipulate data records about a particular domain using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Python+Flask and MongoDB.

The app I created is a single page site. I chose to create an online recipe sapp which allows a user to be able to have an individual account for creating, editing and storing recipes.  

## UX
 
The UX is a simple single page. A standard navbar which concatenates to a burger icon when in mobile view allows users to recognise the simple nav structure. The 'log in' & 'Sign Up' buttons are only visible when the user isn't logged in, otherwise a 'Log Out' button replaces them. The recipes are displayed vertically down the centre of the site once retrieved from MongoDB.
Simple form structures clearly identify input fields for the user to create any recipes. 

### Typical User Stories

**New Chefs**

- Aspiring cooks arrive at the site and will be welcomed with the login screen. This login form also has a note for non registered users to 'sign up!' by clicking the link. 

- Once the new cook has signed up, because they are yet to have created a recipe to view they will be taken to the create recipe page. 

- The create recipe page is a simple form where all of the required fields have a heading explaining what is required to be entered. Once all of the data has been entered the user clicks the save button, which is also recognisable by the disk icon. The new recipe is saved and user redirected to all of their recipes which are saved.

- The log out button logs the user out of the session and redirects to a login screen.

**Existing Chefs**

- Existing chefs arrive at the site and will be welcomed with a login screen. 

- Once they have logged in the navbar includes 'create recipe' and 'search categories', they auto redirect to all of their saved recipes.  

- The user can scroll down their list of recipes and click on the edit icon attached to each recipe. This click redirects and populates the 'create recipe' form with the desired recipe alreay filled in for editing. The user can then edit and resave with the save button. 

- Alternitavely the user can click the bin icon to delete the recipe from their collection.

- The user can search for all recipes listed in under a certain category by clicking on the 'search categories' link from the navbar. This redirects the user to a page with 6 buttons, each identified for a recipe category. Once clicked the user retrieves all recipes within thier own collection with the same category.

- The log out button logs the user out of the session and redirects to a login screen.

### Wireframe

The linked file to the wireframe mockup of the website.

[Wireframe PDF](https://github.com/StevePilcher/RecipeStoreMS3/blob/master/WireFrameMS3.pdf) 


## Features

### Existing Features
1. Main Page - Landing page with immediate login in form. Links in the nav bar for 'sign up' and 'log in' 

2. My Recipes - Displays a list of all user recipes saved in their collection, allows for editing and deletion of individual recipes.

3. Create Recipe -  A simple form to create individual recipes and save to their colleciton. 

4. Search Categories -  6 buttons that once the user is logged in will return all the recipes associated with that user and category.

5. Log Out - Log out button logs the user out of the session. 

### Features Left to Implement

1. Keyword search - Search bar that allows for individual recipes to be searched with any keyword rather than by category. Potential across all users recipes depending on GDPR. 

2. Images attachments - all image attachments to be store with recipes. 


## Technologies Used

The following technologies were used;

- HTML5 
- CSS3
- Bulma (with integrated Javascript)
- JQUERY (for easier DOM manipulation)
- Python+Flask
- MongoDB

## Testing

### Web Browser Testing

The following Web Browsers were tested and no errors found;

- Mozilla FireFox Version 79.0
- Google Chrome Version 84.0.4147.105
- Microsoft Internet Explorer 11.329.19041.0 
- Microsoft Edge 44.19041.1.0

### Mobile Device 

Chrome Dev tools were used to simulate the following devices for testing;

- iPhone X 
- Pixel 2 & 2XL
- Samsung S10 Plus 
- Samsung Galaxy Tab (Portrait)
- iPad (Portrait) 

### Known Issues

- Category search icons not showing correctly on Microsoft IE 

## Validators 

### W3C Markup Validator 

- Warnings and Errors found are related to syntax for python and or flask so can be disocunted


### W3C CSS Validator 

- No errors or warnings were found on style.css

### JSHint

- No errors were found after running JS through JShint
 
## Testing Scenarios

The following scenarios were manually tested;

1. Page Load:
    1. 
    2. 
    
2. :
    1. . 
    2. .
    3. . 
    4. . 
    5. .
    6. .
    7. .

3. :
    1. .
    2. .


## Deployment

This project was deployed using Heroku and can found [here](https://recipestoremongo.herokuapp.com/). This version was off of the master branch from GitHub [here](https://github.com/StevePilcher/RecipeStoreMS3), there are no differences between the deployed and deployment versions. 

## Credits
- Fonts taken from [Google Fonts](https://fonts.google.com)

### Media

- Category Icons can be found at [Flat Icon](https://www.flaticon.com/)

### Acknowledgements
- Masonary CSS/JS layout from [StackOverflow](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/43917346/masonry-layout-with-css-grid)
- Additional Flask learning from Pretty Printed's YouTube video 'Creating a User Login System Using Python, Flask and MongoDB [YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vVx1737auSE)
- I received inspiration for this project from [Pinterest](https://www.pinterest.co.uk/pilchy1983/developer-ideas/). 
- Code debugging help from my mentor Adegbenga Adeye

Commit message:

Updated signup for mobile view and changed create recipe form to fit the device width better on all sizes

README.md, after:

# The Recipe Store -  Milestone 3 Project

![Site Image](https://github.com/StevePilcher/RecipeStoreMS3/blob/master/static/images/site-image.png)


This project was created for my Milestone 3 project for the Code Institute's Full Stack Dev course. The project requirements were to build a MongoDB-backed Flask project for a web application that allows users to store and manipulate data records about a particular domain using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Python+Flask and MongoDB.

The app I created is a single page site. I chose to create an online recipe sapp which allows a user to be able to have an individual account for creating, editing and storing recipes.  

## UX
 
The UX is a simple single page. A standard navbar which concatenates to a burger icon when in mobile view allows users to recognise the simple nav structure. The 'log in' & 'Sign Up' buttons are only visible when the user isn't logged in, otherwise a 'Log Out' button replaces them. The recipes are displayed in a masonary pattern across the page when screen width allows once retrieved from MongoDB.

Simple form structures clearly identify input fields for the user to create any recipes. 

### Typical User Stories

**New Chefs**

- Aspiring cooks arrive at the site and will be welcomed with the login screen. This login form also has a note for non registered users to 'sign up!' by clicking the link. 

- Once the new cook has signed up, because they are yet to have created a recipe to view they will be taken to the create recipe page. 

- The create recipe page is a simple form where all of the required fields have a heading explaining what is required to be entered. Once all of the data has been entered the user clicks the save button, which is also recognisable by the disk icon. The new recipe is saved and user redirected to all of their recipes which are saved.

- The log out button logs the user out of the session and redirects to a login screen.

**Existing Chefs**

- Existing chefs arrive at the site and will be welcomed with a login screen. 

- Once they have logged in the navbar includes 'create recipe' and 'search categories', they auto redirect to all of their saved recipes.  

- The user can scroll down their list of recipes and click on the edit icon attached to each recipe. This click redirects and populates the 'create recipe' form with the desired recipe alreay filled in for editing. The user can then edit and resave with the save button. 

- Alternitavely the user can click the bin icon to delete the recipe from their collection.

- The user can search for all recipes listed in under a certain category by clicking on the 'search categories' link from the navbar. This redirects the user to a page with 6 buttons, each identified for a recipe category. Once clicked the user retrieves all recipes within thier own collection with the same category.

- The log out button logs the user out of the session and redirects to a login screen.

### Wireframe

The linked file to the wireframe mockup of the website.

[Wireframe PDF](https://github.com/StevePilcher/RecipeStoreMS3/blob/master/WireFrameMS3.pdf) 


## Features

### Existing Features
1. Main Page - Landing page with immediate login in form. Links in the nav bar for 'sign up' and 'log in' 

2. My Recipes - Displays a list of all user recipes saved in their collection, allows for editing and deletion of individual recipes.

3. Create Recipe -  A simple form to create individual recipes and save to their colleciton. 

4. Search Categories -  6 buttons that once the user is logged in will return all the recipes associated with that user and category.

5. Log Out - Log out button logs the user out of the session. 

### Features Left to Implement

1. Keyword search - Search bar that allows for individual recipes to be searched with any keyword rather than by category. Potential across all users recipes depending on GDPR. 

2. Images attachments - all image attachments to be store with recipes. 


## Technologies Used

The following technologies were used;

- HTML5 
- CSS3
- Bulma (with integrated Javascript)
- JQUERY (for easier DOM manipulation)
- Python+Flask
- MongoDB

## Testing

### Web Browser Testing

The following Web Browsers were tested and no errors found;

- Mozilla FireFox Version 79.0
- Google Chrome Version 84.0.4147.105
- Microsoft Internet Explorer 11.329.19041.0 
- Microsoft Edge 44.19041.1.0

### Mobile Device 

Chrome Dev tools were used to simulate the following devices for testing;

- iPhone X 
- Pixel 2 & 2XL
- Samsung S10 Plus 
- Samsung Galaxy Tab (Portrait)
- iPad (Portrait) 

### Known Issues

- Category search icons not showing correctly on Microsoft IE 

## Validators 

### W3C Markup Validator 

- Warnings and Errors found are related to syntax for python and or flask so can be disocunted


### W3C CSS Validator 

- No errors or warnings were found on style.css

### JSHint

- No errors were found after running JS through JShint
 
## Testing Scenarios

The following scenarios were manually tested;

1. Page Load:
    1. 
    2. 
    
2. :
    1. . 
    2. .
    3. . 
    4. . 
    5. .
    6. .
    7. .

3. :
    1. .
    2. .


## Deployment

This project was deployed using Heroku and can found [here](https://recipestoremongo.herokuapp.com/). This version was off of the master branch from GitHub [here](https://github.com/StevePilcher/RecipeStoreMS3), there are no differences between the deployed and deployment versions. 

## Credits
- Fonts taken from [Google Fonts](https://fonts.google.com)

### Media

- Category Icons can be found at [Flat Icon](https://www.flaticon.com/)

### Acknowledgements
- Masonary CSS/JS layout from [StackOverflow](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/43917346/masonry-layout-with-css-grid)
- Additional Flask learning from Pretty Printed's YouTube video 'Creating a User Login System Using Python, Flask and MongoDB [YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vVx1737auSE)
- I received inspiration for this project from [Pinterest](https://www.pinterest.co.uk/pilchy1983/developer-ideas/). 
- Code debugging help from my mentor Adegbenga Adeye
